# Cox regression model
## Assumption
- **Proportional hazards assumption**: The hazard ratios (the effect of the predictor variables on the hazard rate) are constant over time. If two individuals have different values of a covariate (e.g., treatment vs. no treatment), the ratio of their hazards remains the same at all time points. For example, if a treatment reduces the hazard by 50% at time t = 1, it should also reduce it by 50% at time t = 10. In summary, the effect of a predictor variable on the hazard rate does not change with time. 
- **Linearity**: The effects of the predictor variables are linear with regard to the log hazard. This means that the relationship between the predictors and the log hazard should be linear. If the relationship is nonlinear, transformations, interactions or splines may be needed.
- **Independent observations**: The survival times of individual subjects in the study should be independent of each other. One subject's survival time should not influence or be related to another's. If there’s clustering (e.g., patients from the same hospital), this may require adjustments like frailty models
- **Non-informative censoring**: There should be no relationship between the probability of an observation being censored and the probability of experiencing the event of interest. 
## Model
$$\lambda_{i}(t) = \lambda_{0}(t) \cdot \exp{(\beta X_{i})}$$
- $i \in \{1,2,...,n\}$: individual
- $T$: time to event
- $X_{i}$: a vector of covariates $(X_{i1}, X_{i2}, ..., X_{ip})^T$ are assumed to be recorded at the corresponding time origin of that individual
- $\lambda_{i}(t)$: hazard at time $t$ for an $i$-th individual
- $\lambda_{0}(t)$: baseline hazard function. *i.e.* Hazard function for a subject at time $t$ when $X=0$
- $\beta$: a vector of $p$ parameters
- $\exp{(\beta X_{i})}$: the effect of covariates (exponent of a linear combination of covariates and coefficients)